Can you tell me any specific tactics that were used
to improve the mortality rate of the wounded?
Because we had so few casualties, and certainly
that's due to the quick helicopter rescue. I don't
know if I understand the question. Tactics were
used to improve the mortality rate? You mean that
somebody got hurt and they didn't die, they were
successfully operated on? Right. Oh, okay. Yeah,
based on your World War II or Korean War, your
hospitals were pretty far to the rear and they were
brought back by vehicle or any way they could.
During the war in Vietnam,
helicopters were brought in. Mostly you had a
landing area when you brought your people in to
fight, or that landing area was cleared with trees
and structures. to bring people out. And you did
have people who got out much quicker than World War
II, got back to the hospital, and were saved more
than what you had in World War II because of the
helicopter. And you had a lot of sharp people
working in Vietnam, riding on the helicopters.
Your aid men were doing things keep people alive on
the way flying back, but not only of the
helicopters transporting to hospitals, but you
had fixed hospitals, I mean built up hospitals in
Saigon, you had the ARAVAC from Saigon to Guam or to
Hawaii, Tripoli Army Hospital in Hawaii, to the
hospital in San Francisco, Brooks Army Hospital
here in Texas, so you had Jet aircraft bringing
them wounded back, so a big improvement than what
you had during World War II. In 1969, 540,000 men
were in Vietnam, but only 80,000 were actually
involved in combat. Why is that? Well, I'll take
your statistic, because I don't know the ratio of
which ones were which. I can only surmise that
you had a lot of support people and you had a lot of
different jobs going on. Like I said before, we had
people who did work back on staff areas to supply
aircraft, to build airfields, to be advisors to
different types of staff people. I mean, not only
did we have advisors to fighting combat units, we
had advisors to Army staffs, Navy staffs, and what
have you in the Vietnamese high command. And I did
know that we had more people not fighting than were
in fact fighting. I don't know what the ratio was,
but A lot of it was just trying to maintain what we
had. We had a lot of security people involved.
Whenever you put up, again, going back to the
tactics we had, whenever you put an installation
up, and we can use Tonsenick Air Force Base or any
Air Force Base or any kind of supply storage area,
you had to have somebody guard that or that place
would be gone. You brought in scout dogs or you
brought in guard dogs and you and if it's something
sensitive you put American security people on it.
You might have Vietnamese with you but if it's
something that you really want to protect again
not knowing who the players are in some cases you
put American people on for security so there's a
lot of American people on doing security work. Do
you ever feel that there was different than other
wars an increased number of supply for comforts,
like one hot meal a day perhaps, or some things that
were made to make the Americans feel more
comfortable in daily living. Do you think that was
ever excessive?
I can't say what it was in World War II since I wasn't
in it, but I read some books on it. think it was the
type of war we were fighting in the jungle warfare
that we, in fact, tried to make our soldiers as
comfortable as possible when they came back in
from fighting. Because I was in the supply
business with 101st, we ran out to them like a mini
PX, PX meaning a little department store where you
get razor blades and candy and cigarettes and
whatever. We'd put it in the back of a truck or on a
Connex container and fly it. A Connex container is
a big steel box. We'd fly it out to what we call a fire
base where they'd come back in and rest and
provide. We also provided different types of
special service shows. Not like the Bob Hope show,
which they came a little bit smaller shows for them
when they got back in. We provided... picture
shows for them on these fire bases, and of course
all this you didn't have during World War II, or I
don't know about it, but you did probably provide
them quite a few things that you probably didn't do
in World War II, but again it was a type of war I felt,
and also you had a lot of people looking at you all
the time, public opinion, and Johnny writing home
to his parents who complained to the congressman
or whatever, I think had a lot of bearing on a lot of
treatment that they've got to bring down the idea
that all we did was just push him out there, have him
fight for a year, and if they made it fine, they came
home. There was a lot of people who couldn't take
this type of life, and you read about it all the
time, about people saying they still... Some of
them play on the idea, but still having
psychiatric problems and what have you. But when
the soldiers came in for relax and
R&R, they did do a lot for them. We had donut girls,
such as the Red Cross, would go out there and put on
different types of shows for them if they could or
provide them. And some of this goes on here in the
United States also. And you and I have the same
thing. Off of our job, we're watching television
or going out and doing something to relax our mind.
And we try to do the same thing out there when they
were not actually in combat to provide them with
some kind of service that they could forget about
fighting. Do you feel this might have been from
American political pressure, that Americans
were interested in making this a short,
convenient war?
Well, I think everybody wanted it to be a short war,
but it never got that way.
I don't know if I really understand your question.
providing them these services? They felt that
there would be a short war? No. This probably is a
bad question. But I just felt that Vietnam was
different from my readings than the other wars.
And I guess it would be since it was so hot and in
jungle. But it seemed like we were spending a lot of
time on supply when there were men there that
didn't really have to be there. And I just was
wondering if that was political pressure from
mothers that, you know, we weren't attacked in
this war. We we went over there to help him out. I
wonder if because of that, it wasn't a national
crisis. It was something that... Well, I think
most of the people back in 62, 63, even when Kennedy
was in office, what have you, felt that we did have a
national crisis in this. The domino effect that if
we lost Vietnam, so would we lose Cambodia and
Thailand, and on and on. I think we're still having
some problems. We've lost Vietnam. We've lost
Cambodia, that's for sure. Thailand's got all
kinds of problems.
I think that you will see as time goes by, and we're
having the same problem with other countries in
South America, that if we don't do something, the
economy's going to take over. And we can't end up an
island to ourselves. And I think we really thought
this would probably be a short war. I feel that we
felt that we could just send over advisors. And
after a couple of years of advising, the South
Vietnamese would take over the fighting. And we
would pull our advisors out. And they would win the
war. That didn't happen that way. Is there
anything specifically that you can name as a point
in time where the American people turned from
approval of the war to disapproval?
Oh, I don't know if I could really say at any time
that they turned from approval to disapproval. I
think the American people didn't want to get
involved in it to start with. And
when we start having a lot of casualties, And when
they saw it on television every night, then the
people said, hey, let's get out of here. Why should
we fight for Vietnam? We had the same type of
casualties during World War II, but it wasn't on
television as much.
I think the biggest problem, from my point of view,
was that the American people never knew where
where the line was. In World War II, when we took
this country, or that country, or this city, or
that city, you could stick your pins in your map and
say, hi, we're progressing. In this war, the only
way you could figure out if you're progressing or
not, and it was unknown if that was even correct,
was how many things you killed, or how many people
got hurt, or how much equipment. And American
people just didn't realize that, One night you
might have a piece of the ground, and the next night
you don't have it. So it's hard to stick a pin in the
map and look at progress. You can look at a
statistical map and see how things go up and down.
But American people wanted to look, you're
winning this ground. I think they compared the
Vietnam War with World War II, and there was no
comparison to do.
Did you see a change in the civilian behavior of the
Vietnamese from the time elapsed between your
tours? Okay, you're talking about Vietnamese or
you're talking about Americans?
Vietnamese. No, I think, see I had left before the
fall of Vietnam and the two years I spent there, I
got the impression that the South Vietnamese, the
ones I had worked with during the year I was there,
were really trying to get out and do something and
save their country. I'm sure most of the officers
that I worked with are dead now because sitting
with them and I went home with them, ate in their
home and played with their kids and all that, that
they were really against the communist way of
life. And I would say that they didn't stop and they
probably fought to the end. Sure, you read about
stories where certain divisions the south
viennese fled from way and came back and people
started running to the rear and what have you i'm
sure that went on but the unit i was with i doubt very
seriously if some of the officers that that i knew
did anything but die One interesting question is,
did you see evidence of inter-service rivalry
between the Army and the Air Force, especially in
the responsibility of the helicopters?
No.
Again, I've got to go back to when I was advisor. We
took help from anybody. When you're an advisor on
the ground and you have no helicopters of your own,
and that's where we were. We were a security unit.
We had no helicopters asked for from the
Vietnamese side of the house. A few helicopters,
yes, to pick up the wounded. We had no artillery
support from the Vietnamese side. We did have
support from helicopters from the 1st Division.
And we had artillery support from the 1st Division
because I worked out a deal where the 1st Division
was hunting for a place to put an artillery
battery. And so we gave them some land right in the
middle of our area. So with the understanding,
which is very obvious, and when I talked to the
commander, the VD's commander, he thought it was a
great idea, that if you've got an American
artillery battalion sitting right in the middle
of your area, if they get attacked, they're going
to start shooting back. If we get attacked,
they're going to start shooting back also because
we're going to be protecting them. We provide
security for them also. So that worked both ways.
Uh, we provided infantry security for them and
whenever we needed help, they fired a few rounds
for us. And, uh, it's hard to really say, uh, why
certain things go on over there. Uh, when you look
at, in my, in my area, you look, I had one little
small area. I was not on the, um, army command or
anything else in Saigon. where I could see a big
picture. I was only looking at a small area, I'd
say.
What was the most frustrating aspect of your
service in Vietnam? Which time? The first time or
the second time? I guess the first time, we'll
break it down in two parts. The first time was
trying to get people to do things.
Some of the South Vietnamese soldiers and some of
the officers
really felt that unless they came up with this
idea, then it wasn't a good idea. And it was very
difficult for a lot of Americans to try to get their
ideas over. And I would suppose that some ideas got
over, You had to be very careful with telling them
to do something without offending them. They were
very cognizant of the fact that it was their
country. And you never said anything to a senior
officer, a battalion commander, which I advise as
a senior officer, in front of his soldiers. You had
to always talk to him. away from his people,
because if you would say anything, why don't you do
this, or go do that, in front of his staff, or in
front of his office, it'll never get done, because
for him, it's losing face, and they were very
worried about losing face, but if he thought it was
his idea, you sat in a corner or something and
talked with him, or you had lunch with him, if you
could stand some of the food they ate. And I
felt that if you could sit down with the officer and
talk to him and let him think it's his idea or
suggest things and kind of hope he runs with it,
then you'd probably be all right. But the worst
thing that any of the officers could ever do was
tell a Vietnamese commander in front of his people
or in front of his staff You should do this. You can
forget it. It won't get done. The second time over
there, I think, with the 101st Airborne, the
hardest thing I feel was a frustrating thing was
that during the day, you would be fighting in an
area or resupplying an area. And it would be a nice
and friendly area. And at night, it could be the
worst area over there. You really didn't know who
the players were all the time. And I feel,
personally, I feel that was a big problem with all
the units over there. All the Viennese look alike,
and they could change any time they want. They
could be on your side during the day, and they'd get
you at night. You never knew who these people were.
Everybody wore black pajamas. That was a great
thing. Everybody wore black pajamas. And you see
this guy walking down the road, You didn't know
whether you wanted to shoot him or not, or at least
pull out your arms. But if you had a red communist AK
type of a rifle, you were almost sure that that guy
was against you. Most of the South Vietnamese
soldiers and the, like, reserve units they had
would not carry any VC weapons, because Americans
were known to shoot first and ask questions
afterwards sometimes. or their own people,
American helicopters might see them and say, hey,
that's a NVA outfit down there. And somebody might
call a jury for them or whatever. So they very
seldom ever carried any weapon other than the
Americans. But I think that's the two of the
frustrating things, is trying to be a diplomat
with your counterpart and trying to tell who the
players are when you're running around. Now I'd
like to focus perhaps on some of the civilians of
war. Can you tell me in what ways did the peasants of
the jungle vary from the people living in Saigon
and more protected communities? Yeah, okay.
Going back to 1068 again, the year I was over there
as advisor, we were out in the field quite a bit. And
most of the farmers that or out in the farmland, who
are not in the city or built up areas, all they
wanted to do, they didn't give a damn, to be
truthful, of who was in power. All they wanted to do
was form their land and be left alone by both sides.
And that's some of the reasons why during the day,
again, they were friendly to the Americans or the
South Vietnamese. And when the South Vietnamese
and Americans left, The VC came in at night, which
was a kind of a normal operation. They were
friendly to them. They didn't care who was running
the show. Just leave me alone. Let me do my rice
paddy or grow my whatever they were growing, for
the most part it was rice. And they didn't care who
was in power. And when you get back in the built up
areas, back in these towns and Saigon, for
example, yeah, they did. have a feeling for who was
going to be in power, and they were more into the
politics end of things. But the former out in the
field, as long as his rice paddy grew, he didn't
care who would run the show. How were the women, the
Vietnamese women, treated? What was their status
in the Vietnamese culture? Well, nothing like
there are in the United States, that's for sure.
Vietnamese women, for the most part, treated by
other Vietnamese, I guess you mean,
they were something to be tolerated, you might
say. There was very few women who were in any
political positions. The women were to bear
children, and to keep the house clean, work in the
rice paddies,
The role was much less to do what they're told. And
they even were supposedly to walk behind the man. I
think it's, I forgot what it is now, but it was two or
three steps behind and two or three steps to the
left or right. I can't remember what it was now. But
they had really no rules at all. If a male child, if a
parent had children, family had children, and the
first one was a girl and the second was a boy, the boy
child would have more authority in the family than
the first born girl child. So the women didn't have
much of a role in anything.
How did you deal with the cultural differences in
Eastern and Western moms?
Well, I don't think I really did. I worked with my
counterpart, and I was fortunate that, again, he
spoke English. He had been trained in the United
States. He had gone to a basic officer's course at
Fort Benning. He was a Catholic, and I'm Catholic.
So I accompanied him to his church services, which
is the same as mine. Some things they did different
than what I would see done here in the United
States. But anyway, he was Catholic. I was
Catholic. And so we got along all right in the
religion aspects. And he took me to his home. And we
advisors didn't have very much of a home. We had
something provided by the government. But it was
pretty nice. But we were either with some other
group of American officers, or we were with the
battalion. And with the battalion, you were
probably in tents. But when you're with other
advisors in an advisor compound, then we were an
old French hotel of some sort when I was advising.
But again, they
did their thing. And you tried to learn. I tried to
learn what they were doing because it was
interesting. I didn't have any cultural
problems. per se, because I tried to go along with
the things that they showed me. I remember one
occasion, and this is kind of funny, somewhat.
Again, remember that I didn't understand all the
Vietnamese I should have understood. We went to a
party, which was a number of senior officers of the
battalion, and I went to it, sitting next to the
battalion commander, He toasted everybody, and
he had a glass of something, and I had it in front of
me, and everybody toasted it, and we drank it, and
it was horrible. Yeah, it was horrible. It looked
like tomato juice. And I said to him, I said, what
did we just drink? And he says, whiskey, very good
whiskey. And I said, I know, but what's the red
stuff? I said, that don't taste like tomato juice
to me. He says, oh, no, that's goat's blood. It was
whiskey and goat's blood. Very good. He says, very
good. I guess you know what we had for supper that
night? The goat. And he didn't like hamburgers, I
found out, as we went down the road. And so I never
had to have any more goat's blood, because every
time that he would say anything about goat's
blood, I would say, well, you didn't eat my
hamburger, so we had a standoff. So I never had any
more goat's blood.
Do you think America's effort with the war was
obstructed by any barriers between their way of
thinking and ours, besides what you mentioned?
Oh, I'm sure there was in some cases.
Again, here, you're talking about the overall war
that I wasn't involved in. I was involved in a very
small segment, but from what I read, I would say
that the The American way of life and the Oriental
or Viennese way of life is not the same. They have
different values and hold different things that
they believe in. And I'm sure that there was
problems between the Oriental and the American
way of thinking. You can just look at the truth
conferences that Kissinger ran back and forth on
and everybody else. thinking that they had an
agreement. No, they didn't have an agreement.
Yes, they did have an agreement.
The oriental outlook, I feel, is they'll wait till
hell freezes over to get their own way. They will
talk to you and agree with you and agree with you and
talk to you and smile and everything else. But
they're not going to do it. They don't want to do it.
It's not going to be done. And I think that's the
same thing that Nixon and Kissinger and all of them
had. A lot of people agreed with what they wanted to
do, but they only stalled food around until they
got what they wanted, getting us out of the country
and then taking over.
The media played a big role in the Vietnam War. What
do you think of the media coverage of Vietnam?
Well, I got involved with one The man who came over
to Vietnam was Charles Collingwood. I have some
pictures of him. And that was the only time, and
that was right after Tet, that I'd ever gotten any
type of involvement with firsthand knowledge.
And I felt Charles Collingwood did a real fine job.
He came over there, and he was with the training
center. He wasn't with the unit I was with, but
since the training center had another officer
that was involved, American officer that came
down. So I was working out with him and trying to
help him set up all this stuff. But anyway,
Collingwood came over and he talked about the
training and talked about the problems they had.
We knew that we had VCs that we were training
because the way they would draft people, as I told
you before, go down the street and grab them, we
knew that people that we were training was on the
other side. For that matter, we were very
cautious, the sergeant and myself, that we tried
to work together and stay together a lot so that we
wouldn't get shot from behind. We knew that there
were VCs in the unit. For that matter, at night, the
trainees would not be given a weapon at night. They
would have a weapon during the day, and we'd give
them ammunition during the day when they went to
training ranges. But at night, the weapons were
all taken away from them. And of course we do the,
you know, that's not, that seems kind of unusual
during wartime, but we do basically the same thing
in the American Army right now. We train during the
day, men have weapons during the day, and at night
we lock them up in racks down the center of the floor
of the barracks, or we put them in an arms room, only
because we don't want them to accidentally shoot
themselves. But over there, the reason behind it
was that you might end up with a couple of, VCs
running around trying to shoot people. I'm not
sure if you're aware of what happened. At one
point, the media covered a story where right in
front of American eyes, a Buddhist doused himself
with gasoline and put himself to suicide. How do
you think the Buddhist religion affected the
decisions of the country? Well, I thought there
was a very influential group. I also saw a film of
when the general, the Viennese general shot and
killed a VC in the street, and there was films of
people doused themselves with gas. I think even a
few Americans in the United States here did
something like that too. But the Buddhists were a
very influential group. They were just like
another political party like the Democrats and
Republicans we got. They felt that they could do it
better and it was a basketball back and forth
between both of them. A lot of your soldiers were
Buddhist and believed in that way. The priest,
when they came in to conduct services in our units
when I was an advisor, were carded all kinds of
rights and what have you. Freedom of speech, you
might say, or religion. And I don't know what they
were saying, but I know that they came in and
conducted church service or whatever. And they
were a very potent group. The Orientals believe in
a lot of that, and have different types of services
and holidays and what have you. So they were a very
potent group.
Do you feel the average civilian of Vietnam was
aware of the ideals of democracy and their
countries being a testing ground for democracy?
Do you think they were aware of that? Well, it
depends on what kind of democracy you're talking
about. I don't think that any of them were aware of
what we call democracy. I think what they were
looking at, and again, we've got to get back to the
people in the built-up areas, because again here,
the farmers didn't care about anything but their
farmland.
I felt those who were trying to build a government,
yeah, they had democracy, but their type of
democracy you could do what you wanted to do as long
as you didn't do it against the government. Some of
the people in high places over there, I remember
seeing General Two and a few of the other, General
Key and his wife over there. A lot of people felt
that they were trying to set themselves up as king
and queen what have you and there was groups
against them i think
when you start talking about democracy the
viennese had a different feeling of democracy
than what you and i know it their democracy was stop
the fighting and get on with life over there and
that the government would have I won't say
dictatorial powers, but they had a big say in what
the people were going to do, but it would be a
democratic dictatorial shift, you might say. One
thing that I've learned in studying Vietnam is
that a lot of times there were just things that were
lost, you know, equipment, but also that there
were people actively working you know, both
Vietnamese and Americans, that there was a black
market set up for corruption. Can you tell me
examples? It depends on what you're trying to say
now. Are you talking about a black market of luxury
items or a black market of supplies for the war?
Well, both. Yeah, there was quite a bit of luxury
black market items. The Americans were bringing
in for their soldiers a lot of, post-exchange
items, and I don't know if you've heard of the
post-exchange, it looks like a Walmart, okay,
doing away with the furniture stuff and whatever,
you know, stereos like this one here, and
different types of pocket radios, and a lot of
comfort items, and somehow, some of this stuff
would get ripped off before it ever got to the
post-exchange, or the beer got stolen, or the
whiskey that they had for the different clubs
where it gets stolen. Lo and behold, it come up on
the streets. There's a street called Tuto Street
in Vietnam where all this stuff would appear just
right on the streets. And nobody seemed to do
anything about it. I mean, you could walk, if you
couldn't find the PX, you walked down there and you
might find it. You might pay more for it. But yeah,
it was an open black market going on in Vietnam. of
that type of goods. Of military goods,
I didn't know of any military goods that were sold
or bought by anybody. I'm sure there might have
been, but there were some accounting problems
over there I know of. I've heard of one story,
whether it's true or not or not, that the Air Force
was trying to order all kinds of parts for
aircraft, millions of dollars of parts. And they
didn't even know it, but they had them already in
their warehouse. And they had a problem in just
trying to figure out what's in these boxes. And we
had an accountability problem. And they went
back, and from where I hear it, they had a team that
came over to Vietnam and had to sort through all
these warehouses they had for aircraft parts to
get everything in line, get them computerized,
and whatever, so they could figure out what they
had. But the pleasure items, yeah, I saw a black
marker on that. But the military equipment, I
didn't see anybody doing anything with that
stuff.
In your opinion, why did the U.S. lose the war
in Vietnam? The bombing escalation? Yeah, I think
that, and like you just said, I think we lost the war
in Vietnam. I think we just didn't have the will to
fight anymore. The Army had the will to fight. I
think the American Army, or armed forces, not just
the Army, had the will to fight. But our
politicians back here in the United States and our
civilian people back in the United States just
didn't have the will to fight anymore.
We, again, we were not carrying the war to the
north. We were just staying on our side. We had, our
politicians had made a lot of promises about
getting the troops out by such and such a day, or
this was gonna, we were gonna get out, win with
honor, I think one of the cliches were. And I think
the North Vietnamese just said, well, if we keep
stalling and keep stalling and keep stalling,
between the media and the politicians and the
civilian side of the house, we can get them out of
Vietnam, we can take over, and that's exactly what
happened. As soon as the Americans got out, and I
forget now how many months, if it was months,
everything after the Americans got their last
units out, everything just fell apart. We also had
a problem on funding, too. At that time, Congress
and whatever was cutting back on funding for arms
for South Vietnam. And I really feel that the will
to carry the war on to the north on the political end
of it and the American civilian end of it was, hey,
It's their war. Let the South Vietnamese fight
their war. Bring our boys home. And if they can't
hack it in South Vietnam, to hell with them. And it
went about that way. We got our people out, and the
whole thing fell apart. In a general way, what did
you perceive as your purpose in Vietnam? What
motivated you to be there? Well, I really didn't
have that much choice. When I raised my right hand
at Texas A&M and said I support the Constitution
and do what I was told to do by the President, the
Commander-in-Chief,
I had a choice of one, quit in the Army or continue on
what I wanted to do. I chose to stay in the Army, and I
stayed in there a little over 20 years. So I went
where I was told. I went to Korea twice. I went to
Vietnam twice. I went to Europe twice. I had some
good tours in France and what have you. But I went
over there based on I was told to go. And I felt that
my job over there was to try to, first time I went
over, was try to assist the unit I was assigned to
have them succeed in their role, the mission to
secure the Air Force base and to secure the
training center and I felt my role was to assist
that commander in doing that. And I went to an extra
30 days of school to learn how to try to do that. The
second time I went over was again to support the
American unit I was assigned to. And it's just like
you going to school. If you don't want to go to
school, you can quit. say, I don't want to do it
anymore. An Army officer, United States Army,
after he finishes his required time, whether it's
six months, two years, or six years, or whatever
else, how he got his commission, if he doesn't want
to do that anymore, then he quits. But I wanted to do
it. I wanted to continue my career, and I decided to
do it. And I did as best as I could based on what I was
told to do. Did you voluntarily return to Vietnam,
or was that where you were sent? No, I knew that I was
ended up at least two or three times. Some officers
were more than that. I voluntarily returned when I
received a set of orders telling me to go back.
Right. Do you see Vietnam in historical overview
as a victory in any way for Americans? What do you
think we learned? No, I don't think so. I think that
most Americans, and if you're talking to
officers, and I would, I can't speak for general
officers, but for the most part the officers I
know, we really felt that we lost the war. I think
that we'll probably learn, but some of the things
we're doing right now today probably doesn't show
we learned too much of it, is that if you're going to
go out and win something or you're going to try to
win something, you can't do a halfway job. You've
got to get out there and do it all the way. You've got
to use all your forces to do it. If you're going to
get involved in a warfare where you're going to
have American soldiers on the ground using all
their combat force, you've got to commit your
combat force not only on the ground but your air
also. And I feel that If anything, we learn out of
this thing is that if we ever get involved in a
jungle-type warfare again, we cannot sit back and
fight in one little area. You've got to go to the
source of where all the problems are coming and
give them a taste of the war. Colonel Wilcox, I'm
through with my questions, but would you like to
add anything that you feel important? The only
thing I'd like to add is that all I've told you is my
personal opinion, and I'm not telling you
anything that's anything classified, as far as I
know. Most of this stuff you've probably heard on
television already from one source or the other,
but you can feel free to do anything you want with
it. I just hope I helped you in your classes and that
my rambling on here that you've got something out
of it. And again, it's just my personal opinion and
not an official position in the United States
Army. Thank you.